## **Interpreting pixel maps**
We have tried many methods including Hough line transforms, erosion (BoofCV), histogram equalisation. The following are the problems and approaches that we have found most appropriate for modern scientific articles. We warn that artciles before ca. 2000 may have poor typography, less systematic presention and this make it harder to create simple heuritics.

 1. **Colours**. Binary (black and white only) are simplest; gradients and dotted regions can cause problems. AMI separates colours into complementary pixel maps and can process each separately. Recombination is at the domain level (e.g. differently coloured subtrees)
 2. **Noise** (common in scanned documents), grayscales and antialiasing (very common) mean that background / threshold levels are sometimes critical. AMI can adjust these either from human control or a simple adaptive optimisation. 
 3. **Bleeding and cavitation**. Graphics primitives which are close often "bleed" into a single object; faint primitives may have holes. Where glyphs interbleed we separate them heuristically (by comparion with target gylphs)
 4. **Thinning**. AMI reduces lines and strokes to single pixel width using the Zhang-Suen approach and then tidies some redundant pixels. 
 5. **Character recognition** (OCR). Traditional OCR methods (MachineLearning, correlations, moments and Mahalanobis) don't work well with scientific characters which are often rotated, isolated, have variable fonts, italic and/or bold and cover a wide range of Unicode (maths, Greek, symbols). We have developed a topological approach which is robust to distortion and scaling and can be combined with classical methods (bitwise correlation).
 6. **Separation of objects**. We identify objects by floodfill or by expanding borders. Overlap of different colours is often tractable especially where these are primitives (lines, circles); we can sometimes resolve overlapping objects by creatng a dictionary of primitives (e.g. symbols).
 7. **Segmentation**. PDFs and pixels do not support higher level primitives and AMI uses Douglas-Peuckert segmentation to approximate curved strokes, where possible trying to fit them to circles. 